Practices update: Javascript and Sql Alchemy (#14)
wegotpop/principles-and-practices: practices/databases/sql-alchemy-guidelines.md

---
layout: page

title: SQL Alchemy Guidelines

show_toc: true

---

## Query types

If you are looking for a single result prefer the use of `first` or `one_or_none`

If you want multiple rows then treat the query object as an iterable.

Don't use `all`.

If you use `one` then handle the cases where zero and more than one row occurs and handle the associated exceptions so that other developers can understand what you expected to happen.

### Rationale

Use of the ResultProxy iterable creates less memory-pressure than `all` and in most cases we don't want or need to do anything with all the results for the query in one go in the application.

`first` is easier to understand for maintenance as it returns `None` if no row is found.

If you use `one` then multiple rows or no rows found are both exceptions and in our code we rarely handle those exceptions explicitly so it is hard to follow what the code should be doing in those cases.

For `one_or_none` then you should do something appropriate with the multiple rows exception.

> The `fetch` methods may require slightly different management of connections so they should probably never be used in our codebases.

Reviewer: Looking at the docs fetchone/fetchmany are only really available for compatibility with v1, so maybe thats worth calling out a bit more.
https://docs.sqlalchemy.org/en/14/core/connections.html?highlight=fetch#sqlalchemy.engine.Result.fetchone

Author: Let's update this in light of 1.4/2.0 once it's merged are we thinking of switching to prohibition of use (the link is currently blocked by Bitglass 🙄

> See also the advice in the Essential SQL Alchemy book.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
See also the advice in the Essential SQLAlchemy book.
```
